@cindex Bug
@cindex Problems
@cindex Bugs

To report bugs or suggest enhancements for Mediatex, please
send electronic mail to @email{nroche@@narval.fr.eu.org}.

For bug reports, please include enough information for the maintainers
to reproduce the problem.  Generally speaking, that means:

@itemize @bullet
@item The version numbers of Mediatex (which you can find by running
      @w{@samp{mediatex --version}}) and any other program(s) or
      manual(s) involved.
@item Hardware and operating system names and versions.
@item The contents of any input files necessary to reproduce the bug.
@item The expected behaviour and/or output.
@item A description of the problem and samples of any erroneous output.
@item Options you gave to @command{configure} other than specifying
      installation directories.
@item Anything else that you think would be helpful.
@end itemize

When in doubt whether something is needed or not, include it.  It's
better to include too much than to leave out something important.

@cindex Patches
@cindex Contributing
Patches are welcome; if possible, please make them with @samp{@w{diff
-c}}.  Please follow the existing coding style.

@unnumberedsec Tips to debug
@itemize @bullet
@item run scripts alone : change directory to @file{/usr/share/mediatex/scripts} or set the @code{srcdir} variable. For instance :
@example
srcdir=/usr/share/mediatex/scripts MDTX_MDTXUSER=serv1 \
/usr/share/mediatex/scripts/audit.sh hello \
  audit_20160204-002128_395972467d4e582287143a094dd14c10:nroche \
  022a34b2f9b893fba5774237e1aa80ea 24075 0
@end example

@item configure @code{rsyslog} so as not to drop messages
@example
$ cat /etc/rsyslog.conf
$ModLoad imuxsock 
$SystemLogRateLimitInterval 0
$SystemLogRateLimitBurst 0
@end example

@item working on source tree
@example
# apt-get install libtool-bin
$ libtool --mode=execute valgrind ./@var{BINARY} @var{ARGS}
$ libtool --mode=execute gdb @var{BINARY}
@end example

@item drop setuid bit from mediatex client:
@example
# chmod -s /usr/bin/mediatex
# valgrind mediatex ls coll
@end example

@item @code{gdb} using emacs:
@example
# xhost local:mdtx
# su mdtx
$ export DISPLAY=:0.0
$ emacs23
> M-x gdb 
> Run gdb (like this): gdb --annotate=3 mediatexd
(gdb) set args -sinfo -ffile
(gdb) b extractRecord
(gdb) r
@end example

@item @code{gdb} attachin daemon:
@example
$ cat /var/run/mediatex/mdtx.pid
@var{PID}
$ gdb
> attach @var{PID}
@end example

@item @code{gdb} using core dump:
@example
# echo 1 > /proc/sys/fs/suid_dumpable
# echo '/var/tmp/core.%p' > /proc/sys/kernel/core_pattern
# ulimit -c unlimited               // (into /etc/init.d/mediatexd)

# /etc/init.d/mediatexd start
# kill -SIGABRT @var{PID}           // (to simulate coredump)
# su mdtx
$ gdb mediatexd
> core-file /var/tmp/core
> bt
> frame @var{#Number}
> set args ...
@end example

@item @code{valgrind} to detect memory leaks
@example
# su mdtx
$ valgrind \
       --leak-check=full --show-reachable=yes --track-origins=yes 
       mediatexd
@dots{}
# mediatex srv notify 
# kill -SIGTERM @var{PID}
@end example

@item 
@code{gprof}: need to compile using the static library
@file{src/Makefile.am}
@example
<<<
mediatex_LDADD = client/libclient.a libmediatex.la
---
mediatex_LDADD = client/libclient.a libmediatex.a
<<<
@end example

@example
$ make CFLAGS="-g -p"
# make install
# mediatex upload
$ ls gmon.out
$ gprof /usr/bin/mediatex > gprof.txt
@end example

@item @code{kcachegrind}: profiling that include system calls
@example
# apt-get install kcachegrind
# chmod u-s /usr/bin/mediatex
# valgrind --tool=callgrind mediatex upload
$ kcachegrind callgrind.out.nnn
@end example

@item 
reload the info page into emacs
@example
in a new buffer use the M-x org-mode :
info:/home/user/git/mediatex/doc/mediatex.info
info:/usr/share/info/mediatex.info
place cursor on a line and type C-c C-o
@end example

@item 
investigate memory leaks on setuid binary (valgring refusing)
@example
$ QUERY -A -sdebug:alloc 2>&1 | sed 's/:.*]/:/' \
   | cut -d" " -f2,3 | grep malloc | sort | uniq -c
$ QUERY -A -sdebug:alloc 2>&1 | sed 's/:.*]/:/' \
   | cut -d" " -f2,3 | grep free   | sort | uniq -c
@end example
Otherwise, you need to drop setuid bit on binary and to run it as root, as seen previously.

@item 
check memory in use
@example
$ ps -e -ovsz -orss,args= | sort -b -k1,1n | grep mediatex
@end example

@item @code{massif} to detect memory hogs
@example
$ pmap @var{PID}

# su mdtx
$ cd /tmp
$ valgrind --tool=massif mediatexd mediatexd -sdebug
@dots{}
# mediatex srv notify 
# kill -SIGTERM @var{PID}
$ ms_print massif.out.@var{PID} | less
@end example

@item @code{gcov} to display code coverage
@example
$ find -type f \( -name "*.gcda" -o -name "*.gcno" \) -delete
$ make clean
$ make CFLAGS="-fprofile-arcs -ftest-coverage @dots{}"
$ make CFLAGS="-fprofile-arcs -ftest-coverage @dots{}" check

# apt-get install gcovr
$ cd src
$  gcovr -r .
TOTAL     20098   13548    67%

$ rm cov.*
$ gcovr -r . --html --html-details -o cov.html
@end example

@c @item 
@c Diff between 2 @acronym{CVS}'s check out directories
@c @example
@c $ cd dir1
@c $ find . -name "CVS" -prune -o \
@c    \( -type f -exec diff -I '$Id:' @{@} ../dir2/@{@} \; \)
@c @end example

@end itemize
